 ———— Quick overview of events ——————————————————————————————————————————————

 1.) Maya starts in Ragnoth Village. She recruits Edmund into the resistance.

 2.) Maya and Edmund travel to the Badlands and learn from Morai that Arcanian
 relics are used to power airships.

 3.) Maya and Edmund commandeer an Asnoth ship and sail to Tristran where Maya
 is reunited with childhood friend Glenn.

 4.) Glenn escorts the party to the Arcanian tower ruins where they recover an
 Arcanian relic.

 5.) Glenn leaves the party to be alone with his thoughts. Maya and Edmund
 return to the Badlands where Morai uses the relic to power an airship.

 6.) Maya and Edmund fly the ship into Asnoth's castle towers. A dark knight
 requests to join the party to confront Lord Leonis about his behavior.

 7.) The dark knight is revealed to be Princess Rose, and Lord Leonis is
 revealed to by a Doppelganger whom the Shadow Lord appointed to take
 Lord Leonis' place.

 8.) The Doppelganger murders the princes, leaving Edmund and Princess Rose
 devastated. Maya and Rose depart for the Dreadnought to confront the Shadow
 Lord en route to the Arcanian summit. Edmund meanwhile commandeers an Asnoth
 airship and heads to the Arcanian summit to sabotage the Shadow Lord's plans.

 9.) In attempting to smash an Arcanian orb, Edmund is transported to a
 purgatorial world where he must relive the occupation of Asnoth. He
 encounters apparitions of the real Lord Leonis, as well as Prince Gielgud,
 who transport him back to the real world.

10.) Maya and Rose board the Dreadnought and attempt to confront the Shadow
 Lord, but are ejected from the ship during an explosion.

11.) Edmund swoops in and captures both Maya and Rose as they tumble from the
 Dreadnought's deck. The Dreadnought crashes into the Arcanian tower summit,
 creating an opening through which the party may enter.

12.) At the tower summit, Maya and Edmund must divide into two teams and
 attempt to break two seals at the same time, permitting them access to the
 realm of the gods where the Shadow Lord has already taken refuge.

13.) Maya makes her way into the final dungeon and defeats the Shadow Lord.


 ———— Game start - Ragnoth and surrounding area —————————————————————————————

After the opening cutscene, the game starts the player in Ragnoth Village,
facing one of the tombstones in the cemetery. The player controls Maya with no
other allies currently present.

The player is free to leave the village and explore any surrounding areas. The
ruins of Ragnoth Castle (a side area) are immediately accessible, and will
always remain accessible; however, the ruins are filled with high-level
monsters. Maya is unlikely to survive alone.

Asnoth is inaccessible because the castle is nestled within the mountains. The
only way to enter Asnoth is via airship transportation.

The Trade Route is accessible, but a chimera blocks the exit to the Badlands.
If Maya approaches the chimera, she'll comment that the creature appears too
strong for her to handle alone, and the player will be prevented from
proceeding.

If Maya steps into the pub in Ragnoth Village and walks within proximity of
Edmund, (who is positioned near the counter) Edmund will stop her, explain his
exile from Asnoth, and request to join the resistance. Maya accepts his offer.
Edmund then suggests that the two travel to the Badlands and speak with the
dwarves about obtaining an airship, as it would be the only means of
infiltrating Asnoth's defenses.

If the player then returns to the Trade Route, Maya and Edmund can confront
and defeat the chimera together, allowing them passage into the Badlands.

 ———— The Badlands - learning of the Arcanian tower —————————————————————————

In the Badlands, the player's next objective is to head to the Shipyard and
speak with a dwarven engineer named Morai. Morai will inform the party that
Asnoth powers its airship with relics excavated from the Arcanian tower.
Edmund suggests that the party could commandeer a ship from Ragnoth's trade
port, travel to Tristran, then reach the Arcanian tower (located on the
Crescent Island) by ferry. Once this cutscene is complete, a ship appears in
the port near Ragnoth.

Before the party rushes off, Morai notes that they may not stand a chance
against Asnoth's forces with their current equipment. He suggests they explore
a section of the Arcanian tower located within the Badlands itself, and
attempt to recover a chunk of mythril ore. The blacksmith in Guilden could
then use the ore to forge mythril weapons and armor. This step is optional.
The party can proceed back to the overworld without collecting the mythril
ore. If the party does collect the mythril ore and speaks with the blacksmith
in Guilden, then he opens his shop consisting of mythril items.

Also located with the Arcanian tower in the Badlands is a rune key. This key
item is optional, but if collected, it allows the player to open locked
treasure chests that are spread throughout the game.

 ———— Return to the overworld - commandeering a ship ————————————————————————

The only way for the player to leave the main continent and explore other
parts of the world is via a ship, or airship. After the cutscene with Morai in
the Badlands, a (sea) ship will appear docked at the port just south of
Ragnoth Village. When the player attempts to enter the ship, a cutscene ensues
in which Maya and Edmund storm onto the ship's deck and fight a group of
Asnoth soldiers. They then set sail for Tristran, the forested continent to
the east.

The player doesn't gain control over the ship just yet. Just before the party
leaves the port, an apparition appears and warns them that the Shadow Lord is
aware of their plans, and has arranged a surprise for them. As the party
attempts to sail toward Tristran, a sea creature appears in their path, and
they're forced to defeat a weaker iteration of the Leviathan monster. With the
creature defeated, the player gains control of the ship.

Slightly west of Ragnoth is the Flooded Village, another side area the player
can explore when they have access to a ship.

 ———— Heading to Tristran - exploring the Fey Wood ——————————————————————————

After docking at the port north of Tristran, attempting to set foot in any of
the forest tiles transports the party to the Fey Wood. Maya mentions that she
learned about the fey creatures that inhabit these woods, and how they like to
play tricks on travelers. The player has to navigate through a short series of
labyrinthine paths while various fey creatures appear near each of the exits,
attempt to mislead the player along the way.

If the player successfully reaches the real exit, then they appear outside of
the forest, standing just near Tristran Village. Subsequently exploring the
forested area around Tristran does not place the player back into the Fey Wood
map - the warps leading to the map are permanently erased from the game.

When Maya and Edmund first set foot into Tristran Village, a cutscene
automatically executes. Glenn, a childhood friend of Maya, recognizes her and
explains how he had fled from Ragnoth during the beginning of the Asnoth-
Ragnoth war years ago. To make amends for abandoning Maya, he offers to join
the resistance. Glenn then joins the party. At this point, a ship appears in
the dock just south of Tristran. The player can board the ship and sail to the
Crescent Island, allowing them entrance to the Arcanian tower located there.

 ———— The Arcanian tower - recovering a relic ———————————————————————————————

The player's objective is to recover a relic that could be used to power an
airship. This relic is a magical orb located on the topmost floor. When the
player collects the orb, the party automatically re-appears back in Tristran
via a cutscene fade-in / fade-out. Glenn expresses that seeing Maya again has
brought a lot of painful memories to the surface, and that he would like to
remain in Tristran to clear his head. This removes Glenn from the party for
the time being. Maya and Edmund must then return to their original ship docked
north of Tristran, double back through the Trade Route, and speak with Morai
in the Badlands again.

 ———— Return to the Badlands - obtaining an airship —————————————————————————

Upon speaking with Morai, Morai uses the relic recovered from the tower to
power an airship, which he then gives to the party at no expense. He explains
that although dwarves are largely motivated by economic incentives, he
sympathizes with Ragnoth, and has qualms about continuing to supply Asnoth's
forces with his technology. He hopes that Maya and her resistance will use his
technology to more productive ends.

The cutscene fades out, then we see a ship rising from the ocean, and floating
mid air. The player now has an airship, and free reign over most of the game
world. The player may advance the plot by flying the airship into Asnoth
Castle, but the player cannot yet fly the airship into the summit of the
Arcanian tower. Doing so will simply cause the airship to move through it, as
the warp isn't set yet.

There are a couple of new areas now accessible to the player: A small island
just north of Tristran, the Rosencrantz area and the Underdeep. There's a set
of ruins hidden in the small island, inhabited by Barius, a lycan. If the
player sets foot in the ruins, Barius quickly runs off screen and hides, being
distrustful of humans. Nothing else is eventful about the ruins at the moment.

If the player returns to the ruins after the Arcanian summit event, then
Barius will open up to Maya and explain how his race has been driven into
extinction by the increasing monster population. He then offers to join Maya's
resistance in hopes of avenging his the deaths of his people. This doesn't
actually place Barius in the active party, it just makes him available for
recruitment in the Arcanian tower summit. (This will be elaborate upon later)

In Rosencrantz village, one of the houses the player can explore has a bed-
ridden woman and a mermaid-like creature at her bedside. The mermaid explains
that she is a member of the selkie tribe, and she and her mother were driven
out of their home in the Underdeep by the creature Leviathan. She explains
that her mother has had difficulty adapting to life on dry land, and has
fallen ill. At this point, there's nothing the player can do.

If the player returns to Rosencrantz after the Arcanian summit event, then the
player can offer Kyrie an Elixir from their inventory, which remedies her
mother's condition, prompting Kyrie to join Maya's party as a token of her
gratitude. Like Barius, Kyrie simply appears in the Arcanian summit for
recruitment at any time.

The Underdeep is simply an optional dungeon containing a superboss. The player
may attempt this dungeon at any time. Completing it doesn't result in anything
particularly eventful, aside from a minor cutscene.

 ———— Raid on Asnoth Castle —————————————————————————————————————————————————

By flying the airship into Asnoth Castle, the party appears on top of the
castle's towers. As soon as they set foot off the ship, a dark knight
approaches them and inquires about their intentions. The dark knight explains
that he has begun to question Lord Leonis' state of mind, and requests to join
the party to confront Lord Leonis directly. This places the "????" character
in the active party. At this point, the player is allowed to explore Asnoth
Castle (and the surrounding village) at their leisure.

The player is not allowed to leave this area until certain events are
completed. Scattered through the castle are various guards blocking the
party's path. Speaking with any of these guards prompts various present
battles. The save file doesn't track which guards have been defeated, so
quitting and reloading a save will cause all the guards to reappear in their
original positions.

If the player approaches Asnoth's throne room, a cutscene automatically
ensues. Maya explains the struggles her people have endured as a result of
Asnoth's senseless violence, and the Dark Knight questions Lord Leonis'
sanity. Lord Leonis expresses no sympathy for his actions, and reaffirms his
belief that a genocide against the Arcanian's descendents (e.g. Maya) is
completely justified. The Dark Knight then sheds his armor, revealing himself
to be Princess Rose, who was previously presumed to be deceased. She explains
that she faked her own death so she could spy upon her father and the Shadow
Lord without drawing suspicion that she was a dissident. Lord Leonis then
reveals himself to be a Doppelganger. The Shadow Lord had murdered the real
Lord Leonis years ago, and assigned the Doppelganger in his place.

The party then Doppelganger. Before perishing, he vanishes in a magic smoke.
Suddenly, a scream is heard from the prince's chamber. The party rushes in,
but is too late. With the last of its strength, the Doppelganger appears in
the prince's chamber and murders him before the party can intervene. The
Doppelganger then perishes.

Devastated by his loss, Edmund flees the room. Rose momentarily locks up. The
player regains control of Maya alone. If the player attempts to leave the
room, Rose speaks up, and suggests that she and Maya pursue the Shadow Lord,
who is en route to the Arcanian summit right now. Since Edmund is nowhere to
be found, Maya and Rose leave the castle alone.

 ———— Intermission - Edmund's quest —————————————————————————————————————————

We then open on a cutscene showing Edmund still in the castle. He vows revenge
against the Shadow Lord, and commandeers one of Asnoth's airships. Believing
that the Shadow Lord may be attempting to collect the remaining relics, Edmund
travels to the Arcanian summit in an effort to find and destroy the relics
before the Shadow Lord can get his hands on them. As Edmund approaches one of
the relics and attempts to smash it, it transports him to an alternate realm.

Edmund suddenly finds himself in a burning village similar to Ragnoth during
the early years of the occupation. The player now has control of Edmund, who
is stranded in this village. Note that the Teleport spell is disabled here.

There's a functional inn and shop accessible to Edmund, but the only other
NPCs found in the area are all undead. Speaking with them prompts forced
encounters with zombies and other such creatures.

Beyond the village is a forest. The village exit is blocked by another dark
knight. The dark knight identifies himself as Lars, and believes Edmund to be
a fellow member of Asnoth's forces due to the insignia on his armor. Lars
claims that several villagers are attempting escape, and that he and Edmund
have orders to track them down and slaughter them. Trying to gather clues of
his whereabouts, Edmund goes along with Lars. The player may now proceed into
the forest.

At the edge of the forest, apparitions of Lord Leonis and Prince Gielgud
appear. They explain that Edmund's attempt to destroy one of the Arcanian
relics prompted a defensive action, causing him to be transported to a sort of
purgatorial realm. Lord Leonis explains the circumstances of his murder, and
how the Shadow Lord had placed a Doppelganger in his place. Lars is unwilling
to accept the revelation that he's already dead, and believes Edmund to be
some sort of illusion woven by the Arcanians to mislead him. This prompts Lars
to attack. Edmund must defeat Lars' soul, banishing it from the realm.

Secure in the knowledge that he and the prince will someday be reunited,
Edmund gains a renewed sense of purpose. The prince then uses magic to return
Edmund to the real world.

 ———— Confrontation on the Dreadnought —————————————————————————————————————

The scene then opens on Maya and Rose, docked side-by-side with Asnoth's
warship, the Dreadnought. The player cannot leave this area until certain
events have been completed.

After making their way through the decks of the ship and doubling back to the
other side of the deck, Maya and Rose confront the Shadow Lord. In a last
ditch effort to prevent him from reaching the Arcanian summit, Maya and Rose
combine their strength to unleash a devastating spell with the intention of
destroying themselves, the Shadow Lord and the Dreadnought in one deft blow.
Unfortunately, the Shadow Lord partially deflects the spell, but not without
causing substantial damage to the Dreadnought. As the ship veers back and
forth uncontrollably, Maya and Rose are thrown from the deck.

The scene them opens on Edmund, back in the airship he commandeered from
Asnoth Castle earlier. He spots Maya and Rose tumbling from the Dreadnought,
and in a miraculous maneuver, manages to swoop both of them up safely.
Suddenly, a loud explosion is heard nearby - the Dreadnought has crashed into
the tower summit, creating a large opening through which the party may now
enter.

 ———— Arcanian summit event - the Arcanian trials ———————————————————————————

The party docks their airship near the opening to investigate. Inside, they
find a an unpowered robot guarding a portal. Edmund suggests that the robot
may be powered by one of the Arcanian relics, and suggests attempting to
recover the same one he came in contact with earlier. The player must traverse
the lower floors of the tower and recover the relic, then bring it back to the
robot to use as a power source.

The player may return to their airship at any time, and any available allies
may be recruited by the player at this point, including Glenn, Barius and
Kyrie. Glenn may be recruited simply by returning to Tristran and speaking to
him. When an ally is recruited, they appear here, in this room of the Arcanian
tower. Speaking to any recruited ally within the room causes a party swap menu
to appear, and any character (except Maya) can be swapped for that character.

If the player recovers the relic that Edmund mentioned, it can be used to
power the robot, who immediately recognizes Maya as a descent of the
Arcanians. The robot (Talos) goes into a detailed explanation of the tower's
purpose, and explains that to reach the realm of the gods beyond the tower,
two seals must be activated at the same time. The player must divide up into
two separate parties - one lead by Maya, and the other by Edmund. If the
player hasn't bothered to recruit any additional allies, then the only useable
allies will be Rose and Talos.

Maya's party is warped to a room from which there is no return. (The Teleport
spell is disabled here) This is the first trial. At the end of the trial lies
a boss. Once Maya's party defeats the boss, the scene then shifts over to
Edmund's party, who is placed in a similar predicament. Edmund must also
complete a trial and confront a boss. Once these objectives are completed, the
seals are broken, and the portal behind Talos is now active. The player may
step into the portal to be transported to the final dungeon.

 ———— Endgame ———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————

Now that the player has access to the final dungeon, they may freely exit the
tower at any point and return by flying their airship into the summit and
stepping through the portal leading to the final dungeon again. There are no
restrictions on any other location the player may revisit, except certain
story-related events such as Edmund's otherworld intermission. Asnoth Castle
remains accessible, but the guards are no longer present.

Completing the game simply means traveling to the end of the dungeon and
confronting the Shadow Lord. Once the Shadow Lord is defeated, the ending
sequence takes place.